Add integration test tracking changes performed on all SO types migration metadata (#142306)
elastic/kibana: src/core/server/docs/kib_core_reviewing_so_pr.mdx

---
id: kibCoreReviewingSoPr
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/review/reviewing-so-pr
title: Reviewing SavedObject PRs
description: How to review PRs that changes savedObjects registration
date: 2022-09-30
tags: ['kibana','dev', 'contributor', 'api docs']
---

# Reviewing SavedObject PRs

## How do SO type automatic review assignment works?

> 

Author: Input / comments / addition very welcome for this document.

PRs modifying / adding / deleting any SO type registration will be flagged by the integration
test located at `src/core/server/integration_tests/saved_objects/migrations/check_registered_types.test.ts`.

> This test will fail any time a potential migration-impactful change is performed on any SO type registration,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test will fail any time a change is performed on an SO type registration that could risk having an impact on upgrades/migrations,
```

and will force the PR's author to update the test's snapshot, which will trigger a review from the Core team.

## What and how to review?

> Reviews will likely be triggered when one, or more, of these scenarios occur:

Reviewer: Also, it is worth outlining when reviews will _not_ be triggered? e.g.
- an existing migration function is changed
- an existing validation schema is changed
- an existing `excludeOnUpgrade` function is changed

- a new type was added (registered)
- a type was removed (is no longer registered)
- a new migration function was added
- a mapping change was performed

> - a new validation schema was added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a new validation schema was added
- an `excludeOnUpgrade` function was added or removed
```

### A new type was added

We have another integration test detecting this scenario (`src/core/server/integration_tests/saved_objects/migrations/type_registrations.test.ts`)

In that scenario, we should:
- check the initial mappings of the type to spot potential issues:
  - fields being defined explicitly in the mappings but not directly used for search

>   - overall amount of fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - overall amount of fields is high
  - use of `dynamic: true` (this can lead to mapping explosions)
```

> - check if the type is registered as `hidden: true` and encourage to do so otherwise. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- check if the type is registered as `hidden: true` and encourage to do so otherwise. 
  - this avoids polluting the global SO HTTP APIs with another type, and instead requires plugin developers to build their own HTTP APIs to access this type of SO if they truly need to
```

> ### a type was removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A type was removed
```

> The same integration test from previous chapter also detects those scenarios. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same integration test mentioned in the previous section also detects those scenarios. 
```

Here, we need to check:
- that `REMOVED_TYPES` (`packages/core/saved-objects/core-saved-objects-migration-server-internal/src/core/unused_types.ts`) was properly updated 
  - (but, again, the integration test will fail otherwise)
- that no other existing SO types may be referencing this type
  - can't really be automated, will likely need to ask the owning team directly

### A new migration function was added

- Review the migration function
    - owners are supposed to do it, but an additional review never hurts
- Make sure that the migration function is properly tested
  - by unit tests
  - and, ideally, by integration tests using 'real' data

> - If the migration function is moving/creating/deleting/mutating fields, make sure that the type's mappings were updated accordingly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the migration function is moving/creating/deleting/mutating fields, make sure that the type's mappings and/or schemas were updated accordingly
```

### A mapping change was performed

- Make sure a migration function was added to reflect the changes.
- If the migration function is present, refer to previous section.

> - If the type is registering validation schemas, make sure a new schema was added reflecting the changes of model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the type is registering validation schemas, make sure a new schema was added reflecting the changes to the model.
```

### A new validation schema was added

> - Make sure the associated mapping changes were performed, and that a migration function was added accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure the associated mapping changes were performed, and that a migration function was added accordingly.
- Ideally schemas are validated with unit tests as well, especially for more complex ones.
```
